URL: https://vedas.sac.gov.in/vstatic_1/rn_infodoc/index.html

--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
New and Renewable Energy
                            Information
Introduction
New and Renewable Energy Application developed under VEDAS using WebGIS based technology provides information on monthly/yearly solar and wind energy potential along with related parameters. Such information is required for locating potential sites for extracting / tapping New and Renewable Energy resources.
                Solar Calculator Mobile app is developed to assess  solar energy potential (2009 onwards) estimated from Indian remote sensing satellites INSAT 3D/3DR in tabular and graphical formats inclusing monthly insolationand temperature profile, sunshine hours, day length, and sun path for location provided by the user. The user provides a location in the form of geographical co-ordinates by keying in or clicking on the. It provides information in tabular and graphical format and interactive web maps
Developed solar site selection tool facilitates a potential user for identifying suitable sites for installing solar power plants. 
                
                Application is provided with three tabs shown in bottom and map area for geosatial data visualisation anad analysis. Tabs include:
Reference Layers
Data & Analysis
Tools and Charts

Reference Layers :
Reference Layers :
As seen in the Figure 1, Referance layers tab include four sub tabs Administrative, 
                        Infrastructure, Imagery and Others . Administrative Layers contains Cities/Towns,
                    Administrative boundaries, Administrative Boundary from Bhuvan and base maps from MapMyIndia. 
                    
                    Infrastructure tab contains National Highways,
                    Railway tracks /stations and airports. Imagery tab contains High Resolution satellite imagery from Bhuvan and other images including
                    Cartosat-I, Mosaic (2.5m),
                    RISAT Mosaic (18m),
                    LISS-III Mosaic (24m),
                    AWiFS Mosaic (56m),
                    INSAT-Visible (1km) and 
                    INSAT-Thermal IR (4km). Others tab contains Open Street Map (OSM),
                    Digital Elevation Model (DEM),
                    Survey of India (SOI) Grid at 1 degree and 15 minutes interval and Rivers/Streams .
Data & Analysis :
Data & Analysis :
Data & Analysis tab consists of four sub tabs Solar, Wind, forecast
                        and others. .
                    Solar Tab includes Annual Average Insolation [Avg: 2009-21] layer generated from every half an hour solar insolation product estimated from INSAT 3D/3DR, montlhy solar insolation (available 2009 onwards),
                    monthly optimum tilt angle estimated using solar insolation product estimated using INSAT 3D images, National institute of Wind Energy (NIWE) Products, Offshore monthly solar
                    Insolation over ocean and Solar Calculator User Info (showing noumber of users). Monthly Solar Insolation (Bhattacharya, et al., 2013) products are generated using data derived from INSAT series of
                    satellites as per the following details: Satellite Data Period INSAT-3A / Kalpana-1 2009-2015 INSAT-3D 2015-2023 INSAT-3DR 2024 INSAT-3DS 2025 Onwards These products are updated automatically on completion of every month.
Forecast
Forecast
Due to the growing demand of renewable energy, photovoltaic (PV) generation systems have
                            increased considerably in recent years. Solar
                            Insolation forecasting technology plays a very important role since depending on the
                            accuracy of
                            prediction, the amount of economic benefits from solar energy is significantly different.

                            To cater the need of PV farm operators, Next 72 hours forecast (15-min interval) of
                            solar insolation and temperature, next 72 hours wind and relative humidity forecast (3 hours interval) are generated on daily basis using Numerical Weather Predication
                            model (NWP). These forecast datasets are published as OGC (Open Geospatial Consortium) compliant Time enabled Web Map Services (WMS) and animation
                            for same is also available on VEDAS.
Wind energy :
Wind energy :
Wind energy is the second fastest growing source of electricity in the world. Harnessing
                            energy from wind and converting into electricity has several advantages. So to exploit wind
                            energy from vast coastline of India which cover 7600 km and land, the VEDAS web-portal
                            provides information on monthly wind energy potential. The ocean wind energy is derived from scatterometer data. 
                            India’s Oeansat -2 OSCAT, an active Ku-band (13.515 GHz) microwave payload, and QSCAT provide data to retrieve wind speed and direction.
                             OSCAT has a spatial resolution of 50 kmThe interface is designed to
                            assess monthly average wind power potential. Wind forecast for next 72 hours at 3-hour interval generated from
                            Weather Research Forecast (WRF) model is also available under forecast tab.
Wave Energy :
Wave Energy :
Ocean wave has enormous energy potential and it is harnessed from sea waves. It is one
                        of the most sustainable energy source. The rigorous vertical motion of sea waves
                        contains lot of kinetic energy which can be further use for electricity generation,
                        desalinization of water etc. To exploit wave energy, VEDAS provides information about
                        wave height, wave power and wave periods in form of WMS Services.
Tools and Charts
Tools and Charts
Under Tools and Charts menu, Feature Info, Solar Calculator, and Solar Site Selection Tool
                        options are available.
                        Feature Info facilitates to provide information for the given layer at clicked location
                        on visible layer in the map.
                        Solar Calculator provides the information about solar insolation, temperature, tilt angle,
                        DNI (Direct Normal Irradiance), GHI (Global Horizontal Irradiance), day length, and sun path
                        in tabular and graphical format for clicked location on the map. User can also download this
                        information in PDF format.
                        By clicking on the Solar Site Selection Tool link, user is redirected to another web
                        application. It is a tool for performing multi criteria analysis based on various
                        parameters to visualise optimum area to install solar power plants.
Feature Info:
Feature Info:
When user clicks on the map, the feature information is displayed for that layer at a
                            clicked location.
Solar Calculator Dashboard:
Solar Calculator Dashboard:
For any clicked location on map, Solar calculator provides
                            information about long term monthly solar insolation and monthly temperature (maximum, minimum and
                            average). It also include solar insolation and temperature long term profile and its year over year comparison, sun path, optimum tilt angle for solar panels, day length and power production of PV. 
                            Map is also provided to show user selected location along with overlay layers for value addition.
Solar Calculator summary provides various Information like daylength min/max
                            temperature,selected
                            longitude/latitude, average temperature , tilt angle for Solar PV, Annual Global Insolation
                            ,
                            Power
                            Production of PV.
Solar Calculator table provides long term monthly average temperature , Long term as well as current monthly
                            solar insolation (2009-2021).
In the Chart Section, Solar Calculator provides Insolation and Temperature Profile, Daily
                            Average Insolation(2014-2017),Sunpath, Daylength, Solar Heat Map for Shadow Analysis.
This chart provides 2009 onwards monthly solar insolation for year over year comparison and
                            long
                            term monthly average maximum/minimum temperature.
The below chart shows Daily Average Solar Insolation (2014-2017) and Temperature.
It provides day length for a given latitude and day for the entire year.
Sun's position in the sky for each location (latitude) on the earth at any time of day,
                            using
                            Cartesian
                            coordinates. Sunrise and sunset time is also calculated. 21 Jun Solstice - the longest day
                            of
                            the
                            year
                            21 Dec Solstice - the smallest day of the year 21 Mar/Sep Equinox - day and night of equal
                            length.
This Heat Map shows duration for which the solar energy will be available without any shadow
                            due
                            to
                            terrain. Black Color shows the shadowed time. Green color shows the time during which solar
                            energy
                            is available. This is available during all days in the years. This is calculated using
                            Cartosat
                            Digital Elevation Model (DEM 10m) .
User selected location is shown on map along with administrative boundary and high
                            resolution
                            satellite imagery. Marker shows the location provided by user.
Wind Calculator :
Wind Calculator :
Wind Calculator provides information on montlhy wind speed, wind power and wind direction in tabular and graphical formats
                     for selected location by user.
NIWE Gandhinagar SRS Data Dissemination
NIWE Gandhinagar SRS Data Dissemination
National Institute of Wind Energy (NIWE) under Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has provided Global Horizontal Irradiance (GHI), Air Temperature data of Gandhinagar Solar Research Station (SRS) for year 2017 (every minute). Development is done for organizing GHI, Maximum and minimum temperature at hourly, daily and monthly interval in relational database. Same data is visualized and screenshots are given below:
Pyranometer Data
Pyranometer Data
Pyranometer is an instrument to measures solar radiation on a unit area
                             horizontal surface from all directions. Pyranometer instrument along 
                            with Temperature and Relative Humidity (RH) sensor are installed at SAC Bopal Campus (Technical) with longitude and latitude values of 72.45576, 23.04166 degree for scientific study.
                            User Interface is developed to visualise current as well as previous GHI, temperature and RH at installed location in graphical format. Next 72 hours (15 min interval) WRF based solar insolation and temperature forecast is also visualized and daily updated for comparative analysis.
Solar Site Selection Tool
Solar Site Selection Tool
Solar Site Selection tool is an interactive visualisation tool which shows area suitable
                            satisfying user criteria for installing solar power plants / solar panels based on following
                            parameters :
                            (i) Solar Insolation
                            (ii) Landuse
                            (iii) Slope
                            (iv) Distance from road
                            (v) Distance from grid network.
IPower
IPower
IPower application provides information about potential offshore Wind Energy Resources


--- EXTRACTED TABLES ---
Headers: ['Satellite', 'Data Period']
Data: [['INSAT-3A / Kalpana-1', '2009-2015'], ['INSAT-3D', '2015-2023'], ['INSAT-3DR', '2024'], ['INSAT-3DS', '2025 Onwards']]
